---
layout: post
title: OneNote 2007
categories:
- Microsoft
tags: []
---
I have been working on blogging more regularly and ran into the issue that my company, MicroLink LLC ([www.microlinkllc.com](http://www.microlinkllc.com)), as part of our internal portal has blogging enabled in our MySite spaces. However, the MySite locations are internally accessable and I really wanted a publicly accessable site that I could use to provide information for some of our customers, and CodePlex users. Thus I created a Live Space site ([http://dmcwee.spaces.live.com](http://dmcwee.spaces.live.com)) and even began using the Live Writer for my blogging. I really liked the Live Writer application, but still needed the ability to publish to my internal MySite blog. Given that I had MS Word 2007 I began using that to compose my blogs and then publish to multiple blog site, good so far. Then I began to realize I needed some method to keep these items organized and also wanted a way to get rid of all the little post-it notes on my desk and scratch pieces of paper where my notes were stored.

&nbsp;  
&nbsp;

Enter OneNote 2007

&nbsp;  
&nbsp;

Thanks to one of my coworkers I installed OneNote2007 and began using it, in fact I am using it right now to compose this blog. Only 2 days into real use of OneNote and I have found so much value. I now open OneNote at the beginning of my day and never pick up a pen or pencil the entire day. Reorganizing the notes is easy, write anywhere on the "page" you want, I am hooked. The other great feature is the integrated search, no more looking through dozens of word, powerpoint, excel documents, OneNote has it and can find it.

&nbsp;  
&nbsp;

Blogging is also made easy, just send your OneNote page to a blog, which actually opens MSWord 2007 and publish.

&nbsp;  
&nbsp;

Coolest Feature

&nbsp;  
&nbsp;

I have found that the coolest feature in OneNote is pasting from a web site. I have a ton of notes about how to resolve this issue or that issue, but I can never seem to find the site where it was originally posted. With one note after copying the text from the website when I paste it in I automatically get a reference link to the site where I copied it from! You just can't beat that (forget sliced bread).

